Getting Started End
===================

This page serves as an excerpt to be included on other pages so we have
["DRY" docs](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Drydock).

The excerpt is hidden. To see it, view the wiki markup, or edit the
page. To add it to a page, use:

    {excerpt-include:Getting Started End|nopanel=true}

  
**Another fast start...**

#### [Cookbook Fast Start Guide](Cookbook%20Fast%20Start%20Guide.html "Cookbook Fast Start Guide")

[Cookbooks](Cookbooks.html "Cookbooks") are how things are distributed
and shared in Chef. Continue on the fast start path and visit this page
for a quick guide to writing and using Chef Cookbooks.

**Perhaps detail on Chef and its use...**

#### [Chef Basics](Chef%20Basics.html "Chef Basics")

Learn some of the central concepts of configuration management benefits
for your infrastructure.

1.  We begin with an [Architecture
    Introduction](Architecture%20Introduction.html "Architecture Introduction"),
    covering the basic functions of the Chef Server, Nodes, and Chef
    Workstations and how these components communicate.
2.  Then an overview of the [Core
    Components](Core%20Components.html "Core Components"), which
    introduces all of the aspects and components of modeling your
    infrastructure, Configuring Nodes and Managing Chef.
3.  Onward to Cooking School and begin an [Introduction to Cookbooks and
    More](Introduction%20to%20Cookbooks%20and%20More.html "Introduction to Cookbooks and More").
    Cookbooks are Chef's fundamental units of distribution, the way Chef
    users package up, distribute and share configuration information.
    Recipes, Resources, Attributes, Roles and more are also introduced.
4.  The final basic section is an [Introduction to Search and Data
    Bags](Introduction%20to%20Search%20and%20Data%20Bags.html "Introduction to Search and Data Bags"),
    two of Chef's most powerful features allowing you to dynamically
    change the configuration of your infrastructure based on data.

#### [Chef Architecture](Architecture.html "Architecture")

With all that under your belt, it's time to tackle the dirty secrets of
what's happening behind the scenes with [Chef
Architecture](Architecture.html "Architecture"). We'll give you the
scoop on Chef's [Authentication and
Authorization](Authentication%20and%20Authorization.html "Authentication and Authorization")
system and go over the [Anatomy of a Chef
Run](Anatomy%20of%20a%20Chef%20Run.html "Anatomy of a Chef Run"), where
we go in-depth with the process by which your systems get configured.
From there we'll review all the executable parts of Chef - [Chef
Client](Chef%20Client.html "Chef Client"), [Chef
Solo](Chef%20Solo.html "Chef Solo"), [Chef
Server](Chef%20Server.html "Chef Server"), [Chef
Indexer](Chef%20Indexer.html "Chef Indexer"), and [Server
API](Server%20API.html "Server API") and [Cookbook Site
API](Cookbook%20Site%20API.html "Cookbook Site API") interaction.

**Or view video tutorials and training...**

#### [Guides](Guides.html "Guides")

We have a number of Walkthrough Guides available on the building of
common stacks - including:
[Rails](Build%20A%20Rails%20Stack.html "Build A Rails Stack"),
[Java](Build%20A%20Java%20Web%20Stack.html "Build A Java Web Stack"),
[LAMP](Build%20a%20LAMP%20Stack.html "Build a LAMP Stack"), and more.
There are also How To Guides such as [Deploying OpenStack with
Chef](Deploying%20OpenStack%20with%20Chef.html "Deploying OpenStack with Chef")
and [Guide to Creating A Cookbook and Writing A
Recipe](Guide%20to%20Creating%20A%20Cookbook%20and%20Writing%20A%20Recipe.html "Guide to Creating A Cookbook and Writing A Recipe").
These should be good resources for you as you move forward in the
automation of your infrastructure.
