Configuring Chef Client
=======================

Configure chef-client
---------------------

The initial configuration of a chef-client requires a `client.rb`
configuration file and a `validation.pem` file to be placed in
`/etc/chef`. At a minimum `client.rb` must contain the configuration
settings necessary for chef-client to communicate with chef-server.
`validation.pem` is the permission certificate for your validator
client. This API client is used on the first-run of chef-client and is
used to create a new API client for the node. To create these we do the
following:

1.  Create `/etc/chef`:

        sudo mkdir -p /etc/chef

2.  Create `client.rb` and `validation.pem`:   
      
    **If you have a properly configured workstation**, you should be
    able to run the following command from your workstation's chef
    repository

        knife configure client ./

    This will place `client.rb` and `validation.pem` in your current
    working directory on your chef workstation. You can then use `scp`
    or another method to move both files into `/etc/chef` on the node
    you are configuring.   
      
    **If you do not have a configured workstation**, you should create a
    minimal `/etc/chef/client.rb`. If you are using your own chef-server
    `client.rb` should look as follows (substituting the correct address
    of your chef server):

    **client.rb**

        log_level        :info
        log_location     STDOUT
        chef_server_url  'http://yourchefserver.com:4000'
        validation_client_name 'chef-validator'

    If you are using Hosted Chef, `client.rb` should look as follows
    (with ORGNAME replaced with your Organization Short Name}}:

    **client.rb for Hosted Chef**

        log_level        :info
        log_location     STDOUT
        chef_server_url  'https://api.opscode.com/organizations/ORGNAME'
        validation_key         "/etc/chef/ORGNAME-validator.pem"
        validation_client_name 'ORGNAME-validator'

      
      
    **Your `validation.pem` can be downloaded from your chef-server if
    you are running your own chef-server. On your Chef Server,
    `validation.pem` should be in `/etc/chef/`. Users of Hosted Chef can
    find their validator client's key from the [Hosted Chef Management
    Console](Managing%20Organizations%20with%20the%20Hosted%20Chef%20Management%20Console.html "Managing Organizations with the Hosted Chef Management Console").
    Note that if you are using Hosted Chef, your key is named
    `ORGNAME-validator.pem`.**

Chef client has a number of configuration settings that do not appear
above. See [Chef Configuration
Settings](Chef%20Configuration%20Settings.html "Chef Configuration Settings")
for further details.
