Omnibus Information
===================

This page serves as an excerpt to be included on other pages so we have
["DRY" docs](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Drydock).

The excerpt is hidden. To see it, view the wiki markup, or edit the
page. To add it to a page, use:

    {excerpt-include:Omnibus Information|nopanel=true}

  

Omnibus Information
===================

There are a few ways that the Omnibus install is different from
installing through rubygems or your OS's packaging system such as 'yum'
or 'apt'.

### Tested Operating Systems

Omnibus will work to install Chef on many Linux operating systems and OS
X. **It has been tested with Debian, Ubuntu, CentOS, RHEL, Fedora,
Oracle Linux, Scientific Linux, and OS X.** You can find information on
installing the Windows version of Omnibus on the [Installing Chef Client
on
Windows](Installing%20Chef%20Client%20on%20Windows.html "Installing Chef Client on Windows")
page.

### Omnibus Packaging

The Omnibus installers are built using the same Ruby based Open Source
project we use for packaging Private Chef. A couple of the installers
are built with older build systems, and we plan to migrate them in the
coming months. We also expect to add more platforms in the future.

Omnibus wraps itself in a package specific to your distribution where
possible, such as a deb or rpm, so you can easily manage it using the
tools you’re familiar with. If you prefer regular packages or installing
from Rubygems for policy or personal reasons, you can find links to
those directions on the [Installing Chef Client and Chef
Solo](Installing%20Chef%20Client%20and%20Chef%20Solo.html "Installing Chef Client and Chef Solo")
page.

### Embedded Ruby and Other Dependencies

The Omnibus installer includes the Chef client, a stable version of
Ruby, and everything else needed for Chef to run, in a single package.
The dependencies are all carefully embedded so they won’t conflict with
other versions of the same software on your system. Because you are also
using an embedded version of rubygems **you'll want to use a command
like "sudo /opt/chef/embedded/bin/gem install knife-PLUGIN" to install
any knife plugins on an Omnibus workstation.**

### Chef\_gem and Gem\_package resources

Because Omnibus includes its own version of Rubygems, **it is important
that you correctly use the gem\_package and chef\_gem resources.** The
gem\_package resource is for installing a gem package to your system,
whereas the chef\_gem resource is for install a gem for use inside a
chef recipe. Additional information is available on the
[Resources](http://wiki.opscode.com/display/chef/Resources) wiki page.
