Attributes Cookbook
===================

Cookbook Attributes
-------------------

Cookbook attribute files are found in the `attributes` subdirectory of
the cookbook. They are evaluated in the context of the Node object and
[Node](Nodes.html "Nodes") methods are used to set attribute values.

e.g. from Opscode's Apache cookbook:

**cookbooks/apache2/attributes/default.rb**

    default["apache"]["dir"]          = "/etc/apache2"
    default["apache"]["listen_ports"] = [ "80","443" ]

The use of the node object is implicit here. The following is
equivalent:

**cookbooks/apache2/attributes/default.rb**

    node.default["apache"]["dir"]          = "/etc/apache2"
    node.default["apache"]["listen_ports"] = [ "80","443" ]

Attributes can be set in a recipe as well, but `node` must be used.

### Cookbook Attribute Methods

Use the following methods within a cookbook's attributes file or in a
recipe. They correspond to the attribute type of the same name (set is
an alias for normal).

-   `override`
-   `default`
-   `normal` (or `set`)

See [Attributes](Attributes.html "Attributes") for details on how
precedence is determined.

### Cookbook Attribute File Ordering

When Chef loads cookbook attribute files, it does so in alphabetical
order for all the cookbooks. If you need to ensure that one attribute
file is loaded before another (for example, if your Apache cookbook
attributes requires that the Rails cookbook attributes are available
first) you can use the `include_attribute` method, like so:

**include\_attribute**

    include_attribute "rails"
    node.set['apache2']['proxy_to_unicorn'] = node['rails']['use_unicorn']

This loads `rails/attributes/default.rb` before continuing the
processing of the current attribute file.

The syntax for this follows the same "double colon" pattern as
`include_recipe`, so a statement like:

**include\_attribute**

    include_attribute "rails::tunables"

This loads the `attributes/tunables.rb` file in a rails cookbook.

#### Reloading Attribute Files From Recipes

Attributes sometimes depend on actions taken from within recipes, so it
may be necessary to reload a given attribute from within a recipe. For
example: if you have an attribute that reads firewall rules, and a
recipe that installs a firewall package, the firewall attributes will
not be set the first time you execute the cookbook. Since
`include_attribute` is not available from inside recipes, you will need
to manually reload your firewall::default attribute:

**reloading attributes from recipes**

    package 'iptables' do
      notifies :create, 'ruby_block[try_firewall_again]', :immediately
    end

    ruby_block 'try_firewall_again' do
      block do
        node.load_attribute_by_short_filename('default', 'firewall')
      end
      action :nothing
    end

### Attribute Accessor Methods

Attribute accessor methods are automatically created and the method
invocation can be used interchangeably with the keys. The following is
equivalent to the usage above:

**cookbooks/apache2/attributes/default.rb**

    default.apache.dir          = "/etc/apache2"
    default.apache.listen_ports = [ "80","443" ]

This is a matter of style, and may be seen when "retrieving" the value
of an attribute.
