Infrastructure Proposal
=======================

  
 Currently, a Chef Server contains nodes, roles, and cookbooks - it's
responsible for distributing cookbooks to nodes, allows you to assign
roles, and more. This approach works fine when your entire
infrastructure is monolithic; as long as every system that uses a given
cookbook is ready for that cookbook to be updated, everything is
copacetic. The issue arises when this is no longer the case - for
example, when you want to have a production, development, or staging
environment, where new versions of a cookbook can be used in each.
Today, this is only possible by running a distinct chef server instance
per environment.

This proposal documents the current thinking around the creation of
'Infrastructures', which solve the above problem.

Infrastructures can be though of as a 'container' for a group of
cookbooks, roles, and nodes. Each infrastructure will be given a name,
such as 'production', 'development', or 'bootstrapping', along with a
long-form description.

What follows is a breakdown of how each component would need to change
with the addition of infrastructures, and how they will be exposed
through infrastructures.

Components
----------

### Cookbooks

We already track cookbook versions. With the addition of
infrastructures, we will change the on-disk layout for how the chef
server stores cookbooks to be version specific, and to allow multiple
versions of the cookbook to be uploaded. For example, when you run:

**Uploading cookbooks**

    $ knife cookbook upload apache2

Rather than storing the new apache2 cookbook directly at
`/var/chef/cookbooks/apache2`, we'll shift to
`/var/chef/cookbooks/apache2/VERSION`. The cookbook loader will be
extended to understand the existence of multiple cookbook versions.

Each infrastructure will be able to look at the list of cookbooks
available on the server, and set itself to using the latest version of
the cookbook, a specific version of the cookbook, or to exclude the
cookbook altogether. For example, if we had version 1.0.0, 2.0.0, and
3.0.0 of the apache2 cookbook, we can set the production infrastructure
at the '2.0.0' version of the cookbook, while letting the development
environment always be at the 'latest' version, and making the apcahe2
cookbook unavailable at all within the 'bootstrapping' infrastructure.

### Roles

Roles do not currently have a version number applied. In order to
support multiple disparate configurations, we'll need to add this
ability, or something similar, to roles. Either they gain the ability to
be versioned, or they get entirely containerized within an
infrastrucutre - and it's the responsibility of the end user to keep the
role up to date.

### Nodes

A node is 'assigned' to an infrastructure, and it can be in only one at
a time.

  

**Table of Contents**

[Components](#InfrastructureProposal-Components)

-   [Cookbooks](#InfrastructureProposal-Cookbooks)
-   [Roles](#InfrastructureProposal-Roles)
-   [Nodes](#InfrastructureProposal-Nodes)

[API](#InfrastructureProposal-API)

-   [/infrastructures](#InfrastructureProposal-%2Finfrastructures)
-   [/infrastructures/NAME](#InfrastructureProposal-%2Finfrastructures%2FNAME)

[Impacts on Search](#InfrastructureProposal-ImpactsonSearch)

[Migration/promotion of
cookbooks](#InfrastructureProposal-Migration%2Fpromotionofcookbooks)
