Explicit and Opt-in Filespecificity
===================================

Abstract
========

[File
Specificity](File%20Distribution.html#FileDistribution-FileSpecificity)
is a feature of Chef where a Cookbook file or template is dynamically
sourced based on the hostname and platform of the system under
management. The current implementation of file specificity has the
following disadvantages:

-   *Users who do not need this feature are required to understand or at
    least be aware of it in order to create cookbooks:* The directory
    layouts for templates and cookbook files counterintuitively require
    the user to place files under a `default/` directory. Before
    learning about file specificity, users expect to be able to place
    cookbook files and templates in the root of the `files/` and
    `templates/` directories, respectively.
-   *There is no way for specificity to operate on any property other
    than hostname and platform:* Many users have homogenous (or
    reasonably homogenous) environments, but would have a use for
    specificity based on geography (datacenter A gets a different file),
    environment (production/qa/dev gets a different file) or another
    property.

To resolve these deficiencies, file specificity should be *opt-in* and
*explicit*. When no specificity is declared, files should be fetched
from the root of `files/` or `templates/` as appropriate. When enabled,
file specificity should support user-defined specificity rules on a
per-resource basis.

Compatibility Concerns
======================

If implemented immediately with no deprecation period, this proposal
would break almost every cookbook. Therefore, if implemented, it must be
implemented in stages across several major releases of Chef, with
backwards compatibility maintained for a reasonable amount of time and
clear messaging to users about what is changing, when, and why. If
possible, automated tooling should be provided to migrate cookbooks.

Implementation.
===============

### Source as Array

The fully explicit syntax would look like this:

    file "foo" do
      source "host-www.example.com/foo", "ubuntu-10.04/foo", "ubuntu/foo", "default/foo"
    end

However, helper methods can be provided to make this less onerous:

    file "foo" do
      source platform_specific("foo")
    end

### Explicit Specificity Option

**TODO**

Adds a specificity attribute, which takes a code block or a symbol...
