Chef Groups
===========

  
 I have been brainstorming on how to build groups functionality into
Chef and the best ways to do it. My thinking is that there are two types
of groups, mixed groups and configuration groups. Mixed groups are a
collection of machines, such as a group of machines that provide a LAMP
stack for a website. They are a group because they combine to form a
operational unit. Configuration groups are groups that have identical
configurations (outside of specific attributes like ip address), such as
a group of load balanced web servers. They all have the same
configuration and are generally reconfigured as a whole. Additionally
what I mean by "configuration" is a combination of roles, cookbooks,
recipes. Here's where it gets tricky and fun, mixed groups can contain
configuration groups since you may be have a load balanced web server
setup for the hypothetical LAMP stack. Hypothetically one could write a
cookbook that says "if this machine is in the X configuration group and
the Y mixed group do Z". I think this type of hierarchy may lead to some
interesting things (inheritance?). Nodes would have attributes stating
the groups that it belongs to and there would also be docs in couch
stating which the group and its contents whether it be nodes or
configurations.

As I mentioned this is still brainstorming so I would be grateful for
feedback before I start digging into the code.

(JIRA Ticket:
[http://tickets.opscode.com/browse/CHEF-498](http://tickets.opscode.com/browse/CHEF-498))
  
  
