Cookbook Documentation Functional Specification
===============================================

Overview
--------

People want to write Chef cookbooks, but more importantly they want to
use Chef cookbooks. To make cookbooks more useful for people, they need
to be documented so people can know how to use them.

Disclaimer: This spec is a living document, it's on a wiki! While you
can update it with additional requirements, not everyone will rush out
and update their documentation.

This spec doesn't describe how to use Chef. It doesn't describe how to
program in Ruby, either.

Scenarios - Just why should someone document their cookbooks?
-------------------------------------------------------------

Richard is a system administrator configuring systems to run an uncommon
software repository management system. He wants to write a new Chef
cookbook to configure this for him, and make sure other people can
understand what he's written.

Cheryl is a programmer looking for an existing set of cookbooks to help
her deploy her application. She needs a basic web server, load balancer
stack, but she doesn't want to write a whole new cookbook. She just
needs to understand some cookbooks written by the community so she can
drop them into her configuration.

So What Gets Documented?
------------------------

A cookbook itself has several components. Cheryl and Richard need to
know how to use each one. Recipes are a special component and detailed
separately.

-   Attributes - Describe the attributes in context. If the name isn't
    obvious, say what it is for.
-   Definitions - List the parameters used, what object type the
    definition will use (String, Array, etc), and provide an example
    resource using the definition.
-   Libraries - The full power of RDoc can be realized here, as
    libraries are arbitrary Ruby.
-   Files and Templates - Describe the files and templates used in the
    resources that use them.

### Recipes

Recipes can become very complex with interdependencies. We need to know
the following about each recipe:

-   List of resources the recipe creates.
-   Attributes required.
-   If other recipes are required, mention them.
-   If this recipe needs site-specific configuration, mention it.
-   Known issues.

Documentation Markup
--------------------

Using an easy to implement comment markup tool could output
documentation in a human readable form, such as html, textile, markdown
and other languages. The output could be imported or hosted via the
chef-server web interface.

Such a tool would allow Richard to create his documentation easily
without having to think about it. Cheryl could view cookbook
documentation while she's managing her app servers from her Chef
interface.
