Using Chef to Upgrade Chef
==========================

### Overview

We do not recommend the approach of having Chef upgrade itself. It is
tricky from a process management perspective during the upgrade process,
and can also result in you being surprised by something in the new
release. We recommend following the [specific guide for the
upgrade](Upgrade%20Instructions.html "Upgrade Instructions") being
performed. That said, if there is some reason that you'd like to proceed
with this approach within your environment, the following information
may be helpful.

### Upgrading via [apt](Opscode%20Apt%20Repository%20Excerpt.html "Opscode Apt Repository Excerpt")

Doing an upgrade through [package
distribution](http://apt.opscode.com/conf/distributions), as done on the
individual version update guides, causes apt to restart chef-client. So
in order to update chef via apt with chef, you'll need to fork off a new
process that can survive the chef process being killed. For example:

    fork do
        Process.setsid
        # code to upgrade the package
      end

      Chef::Log.info("Exiting for upgrade...")
      exit! 0

Clearly, not as nice as using the [package
resource](Resources.html#Resources-Package). Alternatively, you could
create a custom resource by using Chef's [Lightweight Resources and
Providers
(LWRP)](Lightweight%20Resources%20and%20Providers%20(LWRP).html "Lightweight Resources and Providers (LWRP)")
DSL.

### Install via [apt](Opscode%20Apt%20Repository%20Excerpt.html "Opscode Apt Repository Excerpt") with [Knife](Knife.html "Knife") Use to Upgrade

As mentioned, it's tricky to have chef upgrade itself. For most software
that gets significant updates, chef included, we don't recommend having
the system update automatically.

If doing so, when using apt packages, we would use action `:install`,
not `:upgrade`. This greatly reduces the potential of being surprised by
anything in a new release. You can use [knife](Knife.html "Knife") to
upgrade individual environments when you're ready to test and deploy. A
few knife examples for consideration:

1.  all systems

        knife ssh 'name:[* TO *]' 'sudo apt-get update ; sudo apt-get install chef'

2.  if you've set up an attribute for each environment

        knife ssh 'environment:preprod' 'sudo apt-get update ; sudo apt-get install chef'

3.  Chef 0.10 [Environments](Environments.html "Environments")

        knife ssh -E preprod 'name:[* TO *]' 'sudo apt-get update ; sudo apt-get install chef'

  
  
