Upgrading Chef 0.10.x to the newest version of Chef
===================================================

**This page explains how to upgrade Chef from version 0.10.x to the
newest released version of Chef, version 10.12.0.**

Windows
=======

If you are using Windows, you will first want to go to the Control Panel
\> Programs and Features and remove any older versions of Chef. Then you
can install version 10.12.0 by using this link:
[http://opscode.com/chef/install.msi](http://opscode.com/chef/install.msi)
This is the only supported install method for Windows.

Linux and Mac
=============

For Linux and Mac, there are a few methods you can use to upgrade. You
can either use the Omnibus method, or the older gems and apt-get/yum
install methods. If you're unsure what type of install you currently
have you can check it with this command:

    ls -l $(which chef-client)

If you have a **gem, apt-get or yum install** you should see something
similar to this returned:

    -rwxr-xr-x 1 root root 368 Aug 1 17:20 /usr/bin/chef-client

If you have an **omnibus install** you should see a symlink to the
/opt/chef or /opt/opscode folder instead:

    lrwxrwxrwx 1 root root 19 Aug 1 17:19 /usr/bin/chef-client -> /opt/chef/bin/chef-client

Follow the directions below for type of install you currently have.

Gem, Apt-get or Yum Install
---------------------------

If you currently use gem to install Chef, you can upgrade Chef and Knife
to version 10.12.0 by using the gem install command:

    sudo gem install chef --no-ri --no-rdoc

You can also follow the directions below to install Omnibus, which is
the preferred method of install. It includes an embedded version of
ruby, gems and other dependencies. If you decide to switch you'll want
to make sure you're properly using the chef\_gem and gem\_package
resources in your cookbooks, and any Omnibus workstations will need to
use a special command to install knife plugins. More information on
Omnibus can be found below.

Omnibus Install
---------------

If you use the omnibus install method, you can update to version 10.12.0
by re-running the omnibus command:

    sudo true && curl -L http://opscode.com/chef/install.sh | sudo bash

If you install the Chef gem after installing Omnibus, it will change you
back to the gem version of Chef and start using the system Ruby on most
platforms. More information on what makes Omnibus different from the
Chef gem can be found below.  

  

Omnibus Information
===================

There are a few ways that the Omnibus install is different from
installing through rubygems or your OS's packaging system such as 'yum'
or 'apt'.

### Tested Operating Systems

Omnibus will work to install Chef on many Linux operating systems and OS
X. **It has been tested with Debian, Ubuntu, CentOS, RHEL, Fedora,
Oracle Linux, Scientific Linux, and OS X.** You can find information on
installing the Windows version of Omnibus on the [Installing Chef Client
on
Windows](Installing%20Chef%20Client%20on%20Windows.html "Installing Chef Client on Windows")
page.

### Omnibus Packaging

The Omnibus installers are built using the same Ruby based Open Source
project we use for packaging Private Chef. A couple of the installers
are built with older build systems, and we plan to migrate them in the
coming months. We also expect to add more platforms in the future.

Omnibus wraps itself in a package specific to your distribution where
possible, such as a deb or rpm, so you can easily manage it using the
tools you’re familiar with. If you prefer regular packages or installing
from Rubygems for policy or personal reasons, you can find links to
those directions on the [Installing Chef Client and Chef
Solo](Installing%20Chef%20Client%20and%20Chef%20Solo.html "Installing Chef Client and Chef Solo")
page.

### Embedded Ruby and Other Dependencies

The Omnibus installer includes the Chef client, a stable version of
Ruby, and everything else needed for Chef to run, in a single package.
The dependencies are all carefully embedded so they won’t conflict with
other versions of the same software on your system. Because you are also
using an embedded version of rubygems **you'll want to use a command
like "sudo /opt/chef/embedded/bin/gem install knife-PLUGIN" to install
any knife plugins on an Omnibus workstation.**

### Chef\_gem and Gem\_package resources

Because Omnibus includes its own version of Rubygems, **it is important
that you correctly use the gem\_package and chef\_gem resources.** The
gem\_package resource is for installing a gem package to your system,
whereas the chef\_gem resource is for install a gem for use inside a
chef recipe. Additional information is available on the
[Resources](http://wiki.opscode.com/display/chef/Resources) wiki page.
