Cookbook Workflows
==================

Workflows
---------

### Combined chef / cookbook repo

In this workflow, cookbooks are contained within the same repo as the
rest of your chef configuration (roles, data bags, environments etc).
This workflow makes it easy to manage a single chef instance, however it
makes it difficult to collaborate with others on cookbooks, as in order
to do so, you would need to share your entire chef repo (often
containing data specific to only your environment). The simplest way for
installing cookbooks with this method is to use \`knife cookbook site
vendor <cookbook name\> to install cookbooks from the community site
into your repo.

### One git repository containing all cookbooks

Keeping all cookbooks within one repo keeps the management of the
cookbooks simple, and allows for a large number of private cookbooks to
be stored on a service like github without the cost of multiple private
repositories. The simplest way for installing cookbooks with this method
is to use \`knife cookbook site vendor <cookbook name\> to install
cookbooks from the community site into your cookbooks repo. Note that if
you use existing cookbooks from the Community site or github, moving
them into your cookbooks repository will make it difficult to push your
changes back to the community, and having all of your custom cookbooks
in this same repository will make it more difficult for others to
collaborate on them using a typical github workflow.

### One git repository per cookbook

For developing cookbooks, this is the simplest workflow, as it allows
for cookbook forking, pull requests and other tools with services like
github. Without using tools to manage the individual cookbooks (like
sub-modules or Librarian) this workflow become cumbersome quickly and
would be hard to keep in sync between workstations and users.

### Cookbooks as git sub-modules

A solution to the 'one git repository per cookbook' issue with keeping
cookbooks in sync is to use git submodules to point to each individual
git repo. This makes it simpler to keep all of your individual cookbook
git repos in sync by simply pointing to each repo using a submodule. The
submodules can all be stored within a single cookbooks repository,
making sharing that repository simple while still gaining the
collaborative advantages of having an individual git repo for each
cookbook.

### Librarian

Librarian is a tool for managing cookbooks which is analogous to
Bundler's 'Gemfile' for ruby gems. A Librarian 'Cheffile' can be
configured to point to cookbooks on the Opscode community site,
individual git repos, or even cookbooks embedded within larger git
repos. As the Cheffile can be checked into version control in your
chef-repo, sharing the state of your repo's cookbooks directory becomes
simplified, and you can easily use cookbooks from a combination of
sources.

Use cases
---------
