Data Bag - Enhance and or Replace
=================================

  

### Session Title: Cookbooks: Enhance and/or Replace

**Convener:** Carl Perry

**Participants:**   
 Kate Leroux  
 Kurt Yoder  
[James Casey](http://wiki.opscode.com/display/~jamesc)  
[Mathieu Sauve-Frankel](http://wiki.opscode.com/display/~msf)  
[Sean P. Kane](http://wiki.opscode.com/display/~spkane)

#### Summary of discussions:

The primary topic of discussion was limitations within the data bag
system. The basis was there are several things that chef does not and
should not support (eg: a full graph database system for tracking
dependencies and interconnects for networking). External systems and
application are much better suited for some specific needs, but they
need a way to put that information into chef.

An idea was proposed to have an "link URL" in which the necessary
information could be periodically fetched from an external system,
cached for certain period of time, and then merged into the existing
JSON structure. However, it was decided that a much simpler approach
would be implement a form of deltas and opportunistic locking for all
JSON transactions: data bags, roles, and node attributes.

##### Opportunistic Locking

Currently, all JSON documents stored are given a unique identifier by
CouchDB. With the move to a SQL based backend, that ID field will need
to be preserved. We discussed just using an incremental integer, but
some discussions after made it sound like a last modified timestamp
field would be better.

Once this last modified timestamp is in place, whenever a save is done
to a JSON document (node attributes, role attributes, or data bag) the
last modified timestamp in the PUT must match the last modified
timestamp in the currently stored document. If there is a mismatch, then
another PUT has occurred and the new contents are invalid. This will
result in a failure. If they match, then the server will update the last
modified timestamp in the PUT JSON document and then save to the data
store.

It was suggested that this change can be implemented now, with little
impact to existing tools and will provide a much greater level of data
integrity.

##### JSON Deltas

In some cases, data written by external tools to chef JSON documents is
meant as read-only for the chef client. In order to better support
these, the idea of JSON deltas was proposed. The idea is to have a new
API endpoint where only parts of the JSON document could be submitted.
These would be in a dict containing three keys:

-   **update** keys which have changes and would need to be replaced
-   **create** keys which did not previously exists and would need to be
    created
-   **delete** keys which did previously exist and need to be removed

Under normal conditions a failure of the above statements, such as
attempting to update or delete a key which does not already exist, or
creating a key which does already exist, would result in a failure. This
would be the standard method for a save call within a recipe. However,
the save at the end of a chef-client run would have the force flag
enabled on the call. This would cause most errors to continue (deletion
of a non-existent key is ignored, creation of a key which already exists
acts as an update, updating a key which already exists acts as a
create). The idea is that the delta API could ignore the last modified
timestamp used for opportunistic locking.

##### Encrypted Data Bag Enhancements

There was also discussion about making encrypted data bags more
friendly. The idea is to use the the existing chef client keys for the
encrypted data bags as well. In order for this to be as secure as
possible, the validation.pem method of creating a client needs to be
changed slightly. The client key should be generated on the client and
never sent to the server. Instead, a CSR should be sent, and the server
should return the signed certificate. This also means fixing the node
creation method where a client can submit their own public key to the
server (may work in the platform, does not work on open source server).

*Mathieu Sauve-Frankel will detail the server side public key escrow
system here*

#### What will we do now? What needs to happen next?

-   Addition of Opportunistic Locking for all JSON objects within chef
-   Addition of JSON Delta API for updating all JSON objects within chef
-   Modification of chef-client to create private keys on server and
    send public key or CSR to server when using validation.pem node
    creation method
-   Modification of chef server to allow creation of a node while
    providing a public key
-   Creation of Encrypted Data Bag Public Key Escrow System

  
  
