Management of External Entitites
================================

  

### Session Title:

**Convener:**  
 Rob Hirschfeld, Greg Althaus, Matt Ray

**Participants:**  
 About 20+ people including Alex Howells (very vocal)  
 Kurt Yoder  
[Nathaniel Eliot](http://wiki.opscode.com/display/~temujin9)

#### Summary of discussions:

External entities are nodes that act on something that the place the
code is run does not have direct access to. Sort of like a proxied node.

Use cases:

-   switch configuration
-   Blade chassis configuration
-   SAN config
-   manual steps
-   non-root control
-   external authentication
-   SaaS endpoints: AWS's security groups, ELB, Route 53, et. al., and
    similar offerings

Notes:

-   Hack way: put agent into chroot or LXE container. More on this
    [chef:External Entity Hack and Design]
-   Looking for a better way - needs an execution environment
-   Challenge - external entities need network access (or serial) from
    limited locations/paths
-   use case - an external database could be managed
-   part of the problem is how do you model the state of these external
    entities? Their state is controlled by the item they proxy for!
-   Cookbooks become like services (see [chef:Cookbook As Services
    Pattern])
-   Changes could happen outside of the node's context - this is tricky
    to manage
-   missing - we need a dependency graph for the switch, chassis, SAN
    etc
    -   these are links, not nodes. there is a real dependency between
        these types of items
    -   Crowbar will model them using roles, but that's a hack

-   we (Dell) are putting a lot of information as extra attributes
    (generally roles)
-   some things are complex, it helps to treat them as nodes
-   Matt Ray will do a session on "Managed Nodes" requirements. He
    called external entities, managed nodes. Session: [chef:Managed
    Nodes Part 2]
-   Can use by extending Actuate?
-   Alex H felt that the Actuator pattern could do a lot of this
-   These are not light weight services! The node cannot invoke items
    that we need to be configured by external entities.
-   Directed graphs are needed but are hard to implement in databags

Overall, people saw a lot of uses for this functionality.

**What will we do now? What needs to happen next?**

Continues: [Managed Nodes Part
2](Managed%20Nodes%20Part%202.html "Managed Nodes Part 2")

  
  
